{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red190\green35\blue7;\red51\green175\blue189;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs48\lang9 TERM-3\par
\cf1\fs44 Microsoft Server \cf0 Assignment\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf2\fs36 Module 12 Installation, Storage, and Compute with Windows Server\par
\cf0\f1\bullet\f0\lang1033  \lang9 Install Windows Servers 2016\par
\b0\fs28 1. Windows Server 2016 installation requirements\par
Ans. For starters, an organization will need a 1.4Ghz 64-bit processor, 512 MB of RAM, and 32 GB of disk space. \par
2. Describe Windows Server 2016 editions\par
Ans. [1] Windows Server 2016 Datacenter\par
[2] Windows Server 2016 Standard\par
[3]  Windows Server 2016 Essentials\par
3. From which menu we can add and remove server roles?\par
Ans. On the Manage menu in Server Manager, click add Roles and Features.\par
4. What is workgroup?\par
Ans.  A workgroup is used to share personal data as it is less secure.\par
5. What is domain?\par
Ans. A domain, in the context of networking, refers to any group of users, workstations, devices, printers, computers and database servers that share different types of data via network resources.\par
6. What is powershell ?\par
Ans. PowerShell is a cross-platform task automation solution made up of a command-line shell, a scripting language, and a configuration management framework. \par
7. up gradation v/s migration\par
Ans. In simple terms, a migration is a direct translation of a previous control system onto a new one, while an upgrade introduces new features, modernizations, or other innovative technologies.\par
8. license and activation model\par
Ans. The activation server validates the activation key, generates the corresponding license, then records the transaction in its database. \par
9. Precaution of up gradation\par
Ans. [1] Always start with a verified data backup\par
[2]  Consider creating an image backup\par
[3]  Don\rquote t make multiple simultaneous changes\par
[4] Monitor logs closely after making changes\par
[5] Confirm the OS\par
[6]  Confirm the chassis supports the upgrade\par
[7]  Don\rquote t assume plug-and-play\par
[8]  Optimize performance\par
[9] You get what you pay for\par
[10] Document changes\par
10. Migration limitation\par
Ans. Migrants may be exploited. \par
11. What is the advantages of server core\par
Ans. A Server Core installation provides a minimal environment for running specific server roles, which reduces the maintenance and management requirements and the attack surface for those server roles.\par
12. What is Nano server\par
Ans. Nano Server is a remotely administered server operating system optimized for private clouds and datacenters.\par
13. Purpose of Nano server\par
Ans. Nano Server is a remotely administered server operating system optimized for private clouds and datacenters.\par
14. Compare GUI v/s core v/s Nano server\par
Ans. Nano Server is essentially a stripped-down version of the full Windows Server OS, as it is headless\f1\emdash it does not have a GUI\emdash and lacks the core server components.\f0\par
\cf1\b\f1\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. Install server 2016 GUI\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. Install server 2016 server core\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. Assign dual IP address on lan card\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. Upgrade server 2012 to server 2016\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. Change computer name\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. install nano server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
7. manage and configure a nano server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
8. configure network in nano server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
9. join nano server in domain\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\f1\fs36\bullet\f0\fs32\lang1033  \fs36\lang9 Storage solution\par
\b0\fs28 1. compare GPT and MBR\par
Ans. GPT is a newer partitioning standard than MBR and doesn't have as many limitations.\par
2. different between VHD and VHDX\par
Ans. VHDX has a much larger storage capacity than the older VHD format.\par
3. what is SMB and NFS\par
Ans. File access storage protocols.\par
4. what is sharing permission\par
Ans. Share permissions allow you to control who accesses folders over the network. \par
5. what is NTFS permission\par
Ans. NTFS permissions are used to manage access to the files and folders that are stored in NTFS file systems.\par
6. what is resource ownership\par
Ans. The Resource Owner is usually the Foreign Key used to retrieve records from the protected Resource Server.\par
7. what is storage pool\par
Ans. A storage pool is a collection of storage volumes\par
8. what is basic disk and dynamic disk\par
Ans.  Basic disk uses normal partition tables found in MS-DOS and Windows to manage all partitions on the hard disk. In dynamic disk, a hard drive is divided into dynamic volumes. \par
9. what is simple volume , spanned volume\par
Ans. Spanned volume is a combination of two or more physical disks with each disk containing a part of the volume. A Simple Volume is a single region on a single physical disk that is used to create and store data.\par
10. describe RAID 0 , RAID 1 , RAID 5, RAID 6 , RAID 1 0\par
Ans. The most common types are RAID 0 (striping), RAID 1 (mirroring) and its variants, RAID 5 (distributed parity), and RAID 6 (dual parity). Multiple RAID levels can also be combined or nested, for instance RAID 10 (striping of mirrors) or RAID 01 (mirroring stripe sets).\par
11. describe DAS, NAS and SAN\par
Ans. DAS primarily uses hard-drive storage with sectors, NAS uses shared files, and SAN uses block storage. \par
12. what is iscsi initiator and target?\par
Ans. iSCSI Initiator \f1\endash  The client machine within a storage network is an iSCSI Initiator. The initiator can connect to the target by forming a session among them and can send iSCSI commands. iSCSI Target \endash  The server machine within a storage network is an iSCSI target.\f0\par
13. what is data duplication?\par
ans. Data Deduplication, often called Dedup for short, is a feature that can help reduce the impact of redundant data on storage costs.\par
\cf1\b\f1\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. share \ldblquote data\rdblquote  a folder and give read / write permission to first user\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. share \ldblquote data\rdblquote  folder and give read permission to another user\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. share a \ldblquote data\rdblquote  folder create a file in that folder and remove inheritance\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
permission and give different ntfs permission to different user\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. configure RAID 1 and check redundancy\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. configure RAID 5 and check redundancy\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. configure iscsi target and iscsi initiator and allocate remote storage\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
7. configure data deduplication\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\f1\fs36\bullet\f0\fs32\lang1033  \fs36\lang9 Implement Hyper-V\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is virtualization\par
Ans. Server virtualization is the process of dividing a physical server into multiple unique and isolated virtual servers by means of a software application.\par
2. type of virtualization and compare it\par
Ans. Emulation Virtualization \f1\endash  The virtual machine simulates the hardware and becomes independent of it. The guest operating system does not require any modifications. Paravirtualization \endash  the hardware is not simulated and the guest software runs their own isolated domains.\f0\par
3. Describe hyper v\par
Ans. Hyper-V virtualization is the process of creating multiple VMs using hypervisor-V on a system running Windows.\par
4. what is remote management of hyper v\par
Ans. Hyper-V Manager lets you manage a small number of Hyper-V hosts, both remote and local. \par
5. what is hyper v manager\par
Ans. Hyper-V Manager is a free Windows Server tool\par
6. what is virtual machine and nested virtualization\par
Ans. Nested virtualization lets you run virtual machine (VM) instances inside of other VMs so you can create your own virtualization environments. \par
7. what is dynamic memory\par
Ans. It gave the Hyper-V hypervisor the capability to dynamically adjust the amount of memory assigned to a machine based on memory demand.\par
8. what is NUMA\par
Ans. NUMA is an alternative approach that links several small, cost-effective nodes using a high-performance connection. \par
9. describe Virtual Machine functions\par
Ans. A Virtual Machine (VM) is a compute resource that uses software instead of a physical computer to run programs and deploy apps.\par
10. describe Hyper v functions\par
Ans. A Hyper-V server can help individual VMs to connect to different networks.\par
12. hyper v networking\f1\emdash virtual nic , hyper v switch\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. Hyper-V Virtual Switch is a software-based layer-2 Ethernet network switch that is available in Hyper-V Manager when you install the Hyper-V server role.\f1\lang9\par
13. hyper v storage---vhd ,vhdx , fixed size, dynamic expanding\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. \f1\lang9\par
\cf1\b\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install hyper v and configure a virtual switch\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. install virtual machine and install windows 10\par
Ans. Done In Lab,\par
3. create a checkpoint\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. P4 create a virtual hdd (vhd) and attach to virtual machine\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\f1\fs36\bullet\f0\fs32\lang1033  \fs36\lang9 Windows containers\par
\b0\fs28 1. describe containers\par
Ans. Containers are packages of software that contain all of the necessary elements to run in any environment.\par
2. what is docker?\par
Ans. Docker is an operating system for containers.\par
3. hyper v containers and windows containers\par
Ans. Unlike Windows Server Containers, which share the kernel, Hyper-V Containers do not share kernels and instead each container runs its own kernel, which makes them special VMs.\par
\cf1\b\f1\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install windows container\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. install container in core server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. install container in nano server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\f1\fs36\bullet\f0\lang1033  \lang9 High availability\b0\fs28\par
1. hyper v live migration\par
Ans. \par
2. what is high availibilty?\par
Ans. \par
3. what is cluster, quorum and witness?\par
Ans. The cluster quorum is the majority of voting nodes in the active cluster membership plus a witness vote.\par
4. describe cluster storage\par
Ans. Clustered storage combines multiple arrays or controllers to increase their performance, capacity or reliability.\par
5. what is NLB?\par
Ans. Network Load Balancing.\par
6. importance of network in Failover and NLB\par
Ans. \par
7. describe node in cluster and its operation\par
Ans. A node is usually a physical computer system with a distinct host IP address that is running one or more application servers.\par
\cf1\b\f1\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. Install and configure failover cluster for hyper v\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. install and configure NLB for web server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\f1\fs36\bullet\f0  Maintain and monitor server\par
\b0\fs28 1. need of updates\par
Ans. The main benefit of Windows Update is that it keeps your server up to date with security and bug fixes automatically.\par
2. what is WSUSand importance of WSUS 3 WSUS architecture\par
Ans. The purpose of Windows Server Update Services WSUS is to\par
What is WSUS? \par
Ans. The purpose of Windows Server Update Services WSUS is to\par
What is WSUS? WSUS is also known as Windows Server Update Services, and its first version is called Server Update Services (SUS). It helps distribute updates, fixes, and other types of releases available from Microsoft Update.\par
3. 4synchronization of update, product and classification 5 wsus group\par
4. wsus port number and wsus policy\par
Ans.  By default, WSUS is configured to use HTTP (non-SSL) over port 8530, and HTTPS (SSL) over port 8531. \par
5. what is backup and restore 8 type of backup\par
Ans. The most common backup types are a full backup, incremental backup and differential backup\par
6. difference between incremental and differential backup\par
Ans. A differential backup strategy only copies data changes since the last full backup. On the other hand, an incremental data backup strategy copies data changes since the last backup.\par
7. what is full server backup\par
Ans. A full backup is a complete copy of a business or organization's data assets in their entirety.\par
8. what is use of performance monitor\par
Ans. These metrics to improve the performance of Windows Server and virtualization environments effortlessly.\par
\cf1\b\f1\fs32\bullet\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install and configure wsus server\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. apply update to particular client group through wsus\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. Take customize backup of data\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. restore backup original location and also another location\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. backup schedule and check it.\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. take full backup\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
7. performance monitor of current process\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
8. performance monitor of cpu, memory\par
Ans. Done  In Lab.\par
\par
}
 