{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Wingdings;}}
{\colortbl ;\red75\green172\blue198;\red193\green0\blue0;\red157\green21\blue24;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs44\lang9 Module: 13 Networking with Windows Server\par
\cf0\fs36 Installing and configure DNS server\par
\b0\fs28 1. Describe DNS operation\par
Ans. A Domain Name System (DNS) turns domain names into IP addresses, which allow browsers to get to websites and other internet resources.\par
2. DNS query\f1\emdash Iterative and Recursive\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. A recursive DNS lookup is where one DNS server communicates with several other DNS servers to hunt down an IP address and return it to the client. \f1\lang9\par
3. what is forward lookup zone and its resource type\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. Forward Lookup Zones allow the DNS Server to resolve queries where the client sends a name to the DNS Server to request the IP address of the requested host. \f1\lang9\par
4. what is reverse lookup zone and its resource type\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. Reverse lookup zone is an authoritative DNS zone that is used primarily to resolve IP addresses to network resource names. \f1\lang9\par
5. what is conditional forwarder\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. Conditional DNS forwarding is a method to direct DNS queries related to a specific domain to another DNS server. \f1\lang9\par
6. what is primary zone, secondary zone and stub zone\par
7. what is active directory integrated zone\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. AD-integrated DNS zones are stored in directory partitions within Active Directory.  \par
\f1\lang9 8. primary server, secondary server, cache only server\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. Primary DNS servers contain all relevant resource records and handle DNS queries for a domain. By contrast, secondary DNS servers contain zone file copies that are read-only, meaning they cannot be modified. A cache-only server is a server that is not a master server for any zone other than the in-addr.arpa. domain.\f1\lang9\par
9. what is aging and scavenging\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. The age of the DNS record is the difference between the last time stamp and the current time of the server.\f1\lang9\par
10. what is MX record\par
\f0\lang1033 Ans. An MX record, or mail exchange record, is a DNS record that routes emails to specified mail servers. MX records essentially point to the IP addresses of a mail server's domain.\par
\cf2\b\f2\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install active directory integrated dns\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. create secondary dns and zone transfer\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. create \ldblquote A\rdblquote  record\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. create alias\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. create reverse lookupzone\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. make a pointer\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
7. apply conditional forwareder betwwen two different domain\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
8. nslookup command\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\fs36 DHCP\par
\b0\fs28 1. purpose of DHCP\par
Ans. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol that is used to configure network devices to communicate on an IP network.\par
2. what is DORA process?\par
Ans. DORA ( Discover, Offer, Request, Acknowledgement ). \par
This process consists of the following steps: The DHCP client sends a DHCP Discover broadcast request to all available DHCP servers within range. A DHCP Offer broadcast response is received from the DHCP server, offering an available IP address lease.\par
3. what is authorised DHCP server?\par
Ans. An authorized DHCP server is a server that has been given permission to lease IP addresses to DHCP clients on a network. \par
4. describe scope, lease duration, DHCP option, exclude address\par
Ans. A DHCP scope is a valid range of IP addresses that are available for assignment or lease to client computers on a particular subnet. The default lease time for the DHCP server is 24 hours. \par
5. what is reservation?\par
Ans.  DHCP IP reservation, you're telling your Wi-Fi network to assign the same IP address to a specific device whenever that device connects to your network.\par
6. what is dhcp relay agent?\par
Ans. The DHCP relay agent operates as the interface between DHCP clients and the server.\par
7. describe ipconfig commnad \f1\lang9\par
\f0 Ans. That displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values and refreshes Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) and Domain Name System (DNS) settings.\par
\cf2\b\f2\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install dhcp sever and make authorize\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. create a scope and check on client by ipconfig\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. dhcp database and take backup\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. dhcp failover\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. dhcp relay agent\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. dhcp filter\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
7. dhcp reservation\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\fs36 IPAM\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is IPAM and purpose of IPAM\par
Ans. IPAM use for manage or Identify all assigned ip address to our client. \par
2. why need dedicated server\par
Ans. Dedicated servers provide an exclusive, dedicated operating system with no contention of resources.\par
3. policy for ipam sever\par
4. which monservice itor and manage by IPAM\par
\cf2\b\f2\fs36\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. Install IPAM\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. configure IPAM with six step\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. create dhcp scope using IPAM 4 create DNS zone\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. check monitoring of sevices\par
Ans. Done In Lab. \par
\b\fs36 Remote connectivity and VPN\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is VPN?\par
Ans. A Virtual Private Network (VPN) adds security and anonymity to users when they connect to web-based services and sites. A VPN hides the user's actual public IP address and \ldblquote tunnels\rdblquote  traffic between the user's device and the remote server.\par
2. type of VPN\par
3. tunneling protocol\par
Ans. In computer networks, a tunneling protocol is a communication protocol which allows for the movement of data from one network to another.\par
4. authentication protocol\par
Ans.  An authentication protocol allows the receiving party (such as a server) to verify the identity of another party (such as a person using a mobile device to log in).\par
5. what is routing\par
Ans. With server-side routing, a user clicks a link that requests a new page or new data from the server (another computer). And then new data or document is served to the user.\par
\cf3\b\f2\fs32\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install routing and remote access\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. configure LAN routing\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. configure vpn connection (VPN client)\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\fs36 Network policy server\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is Radius server\par
Ans. RADIUS enables a company to maintain user profiles in a central database that all remote servers can share. \par
2. what is authentication authorization and accounting\par
Ans. AAA stands for authentication, authorization, and accounting. AAA is a framework for intelligently controlling access to computer resources, enforcing policies, auditing usage, and providing the information necessary to bill for services.\par
3. RADIUS server operation method and radius client\par
Ans. The RADIUS client forwards the remote user's user ID and password to the RADIUS authentication server.\par
4. RADIUS port number\par
Ans. RADIUS is an open-standard AAA protocol that uses UDP port 1645 or 1812 for authentication and UDP port 1646 or 1813 for accounting. \par
5. what is network policies (NPS)?\par
Ans. Network Policy Server (NPS) allows you to create and enforce organization-wide network access policies for connection request authentication and authorization.\par
\cf3\b\f2\fs32\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. P1 configure RADIUS for wireless client\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. confiure NPS for remote access\par
Ans. Done In Lab\par
\b\fs36 IPv4 addressing and IPv6 addressing\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is ip address?And type of ip address\par
Ans. An internet protocol (IP) address allows computers to send and receive information. There are four types of IP addresses: public, private, static, and dynamic.\par
2. class of ip address\par
Ans.  Class A, Class B, and Class C.\par
3. public ip address and private ip address\par
Ans. A public IP address is a unique IP address assigned to your network router by your internet service provider and can be accessed directly over the internet.\par
A private IP address is a unique address that your network router assigns to your device. It is used within a private network to connect securely to other devices.\par
4. what is static ip address, dhcp and APIPA]\par
Ans. APIPA serves as a DHCP server failover mechanism and makes it easier to configure and support small LANs.\par
5. what is ipv6 address?\par
Ans. An IPv6 address is a 128-bit alphanumeric value that identifies an endpoint device in an Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) network. \par
6. ipv6 dhcp process\par
Ans. The client sends a Request message to a specific DHCPv6 server to request IP addresses and configuration parameters\par
7. what is NAT?\par
Ans. NAT stands for network address translation.\par
8. what id gateway address?\par
Ans. The gateway address (or default gateway) is a router interface connected to the local network that sends packets out of the local network. \par
9. what is loopback address?\par
Ans. The IP address 127.0. 0.1 is called a loopback address.\par
10. different type of ipv6 address\par
Ans. The three types of IPv6 addresses are: unicast, anycast, and multicast.\par
11. ipv6 tunnelling\par
Ans. IPv6 Tunneling is a mechanism for encapsulating IPv4 and IPv6 packets inside IPv6 packets.\par
\cf3\b\f2\fs32\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. configure ipv6 address manually and test with ping\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. IPv6 address automatically\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. ping utility\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. ipconfig\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
5. tracert / traceroute\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
6. dhcpv6\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\b\fs32 DFS\par
\b0\fs28 1. what is DFS? And purpose of DFS\par
Ans. The Distributed File System (DFS) functions provide the ability to logically group shares on multiple servers and to transparently link shares into a single hierarchical namespace.\par
2. Define DFS namespace and DFS replication\par
Ans. DFS Namespaces and DFS Replication are a part of the File and Storage Services role.\par
3. what is folder target?\par
Ans. A folder target is the Universal Naming Convention (UNC) path of a shared folder or another namespace that is associated with a folder in a namespace.\par
\cf3\b\f2\fs32\'b7\f0  Practical\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. install DFS namespace and replication\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
2. configure common namespace\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
3. configure replication and check\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
4. configure branch cache\par
Ans. Done In Lab.\par
\cf3\b\fs32 Advance Network\par
\cf0\b0\fs28 1. what is SDN?\par
Ans. Software defined networking (SDN) provides a way to centrally configure and manage networks and network services such as switching, routing, and load balancing in your data center. \par
2. what is SCVMM? \par
Ans. System Center Virtual Machine Manager (SCVMM) is a management tool for Microsoft's Hyper-V virtualization platform.\par
}
 